Develop/TheguyRegex.md, before:

# Mac's Regex Tutorial

Introductory paragraph (replace this with your text)

## Summary

Briefly summarize the regex you will be describing and what you will explain. Include a code snippet of the regex. Replace this text with your summary.

## Table of Contents

- [Anchors](#anchors)
- [Quantifiers](#quantifiers)
- [OR Operator](#or-operator)
- [Character Classes](#character-classes)
- [Flags](#flags)
- [Grouping and Capturing](#grouping-and-capturing)
- [Bracket Expressions](#bracket-expressions)
- [Greedy and Lazy Match](#greedy-and-lazy-match)
- [Boundaries](#boundaries)
- [Back-references](#back-references)
- [Look-ahead and Look-behind](#look-ahead-and-look-behind)

## Regex Components
&nbsp;
* Anchors: ^ and $ match the start and end of a line respectively.

* Quantifiers: *, +, ?, {n}, {n,}, and {n,m} specify the number of times a character or group of characters should occur.

* OR operator: | matches either one expression or another.

* Character classes: [] match a single character from a group of characters.

* Flags: g, i, m, u, and y modify the behavior of the regex.

* Grouping and capturing: () group subpatterns together and extract specific parts of the match.

* Bracket expressions: [] match any character within a specified range or set.

* Greedy and lazy match: *, +, and ? can be made lazy by adding ?.

* Boundaries: \b and \B match specific positions that are not characters.

* Back-references: \n refer to a previously matched group in the regex.

* Look-ahead and look-behind: (?=...), (?!...), (?<=...), and (?<!...) match patterns only if they are followed or preceded by another pattern without including the pattern in the match.

&nbsp;

## Anchors
&nbsp;

Anchors are used to match specific positions in the text. In these cases, the caret anchor is used to indicate the start of a line, while the dollar sign anchor is used to indicate the end of a line.

&nbsp;

## Quantifiers
&nbsp;

The quantifier is used when a character or group of characters should appear multiple times. Quantifiers most commonly used

&nbsp;


‘*’ : Matches zero or more occurrences of
the preceding character.

‘+’; Matches one or more occurrences of the preceding character.

‘?’ : Matches zero or one occurrence of the preceding character.

‘{n}’ : Matches exactly n occurrences of the preceding character.

‘{n,}’ : Matches exactly n occurrences of the preceding character.

‘{n,m}’: Matches between n and m occurrences of the preceding character.

The OR operator is represented by the vertical bar | Using OR in regex, you can match either a term or expression. For example, this regex matches one of the terms, "cat" or "dog".

/cat | dog/

&nbsp;

## OR Operator
&nbsp;

The OR operator is represented by the vertical bar | Using OR in regex, you can match either a term or expression. For example, this regex matches one of the terms, "cat" or "dog".

/cat | dog/


&nbsp;

## Character Classes
&nbsp;

An individual character can be matched against a group of characters by using a character class. Square brackets  [ ] ~ are used to specify a character class. A regex matching any lowercase vowel might look like this:

/[aeiou]/

&nbsp;

## Flags
&nbsp;

Flags are used to modify the behavior of a regex. The most common flags include:

"g': Matches all occurrences of the pattern.

"i : Matches regardless of case.

m': Treats the string as multiple lines.

"u: Treats the pattern and input as unicode.

• 'y': Matches starting at the last match position.

After the last slash /, flags are added. For example, the following regex matches all occurrences of the word "the" regardless of case: 

/the/gi

&nbsp;

## Grouping and Capturing
&nbsp;

Subpatterns are grouped together and specific parts of matches are extracted using grouping and capturing. Parentheses " () " are used to group subpatterns. As an example, the following regex captures usernames and domains from email addresses:

/^([a-zA-Z0-9._-]+)@([a-zA-Z0-9.-]+\.[a-zA-Z]{2,})$/

&nbsp;

## Bracket Expressions
&nbsp;

Bracket expressions are used to match any character within a specified range or set. For example, the following regex matches any digit:

/[0-9]/

&nbsp;

## Greedy and Lazy Match
&nbsp;

By default, regex matching is greedy, which means it will match as much as possible.
However, it is possible to specify a lazy match using the ? quantifier. For example, the following regex matches the first occurrence of "foo" followed by "bar":

/foo.*?bar/


&nbsp;

## Boundaries
&nbsp;

Boundaries are used to match specific positions that are not characters, such as the beginning or end

&nbsp;

## Back-references
&nbsp;

Back-references are used to refer to a previously matched group in the regex. The backslash \ followed by a number n matches the same text as the nth group. For example, the following regex matches a palindrome:

/(\w)(\w)?(\w)?(\w)?\4\3\2\1/

* The groups capture individual letters, and the back-reference \4\3\2\1 matches the exact same letters in reverse order.

&nbsp;

## Look-ahead and Look-behind

&nbsp;

Look-ahead and look-behind are used to match a pattern only if it is followed or preceded by another pattern without including the pattern in the match. The syntax for look-ahead is (?=...), and the syntax for negative look-ahead is (?!...). For example, the following regex matches any string that is followed by "world":

/Hello(?= world)/


The syntax for look-behind is (?<=...), and the syntax for negative look-behind is (?<!...). For example, the following regex matches any string that is preceded by "hello":


/(?<=hello )world/

&nbsp;

## Author

By Fabien Mukungu Acina

https://github.com/Fabitheguy003

Commit message:

Added summary and introduction Regex tutorial ready

Develop/TheguyRegex.md, after:

# Mac's Regex Tutorial

In this tutorial, each part of the regular expression is explained and how it works, so that you understand how it works.

## Summary

Regular expressions are powerful tools that allow us to match patterns in text. Understanding the different components of regex is essential to use them effectively. In this tutorial, we covered anchors, quantifiers, OR operator, character classes, flags, grouping and capturing, bracket expressions, greedy and lazy match, boundaries, back-references, look-ahead, and look-behind. Remember to test your regex thoroughly and use online regex testers to debug and refine your regex.


## Table of Contents

- [Anchors](#anchors)
- [Quantifiers](#quantifiers)
- [OR Operator](#or-operator)
- [Character Classes](#character-classes)
- [Flags](#flags)
- [Grouping and Capturing](#grouping-and-capturing)
- [Bracket Expressions](#bracket-expressions)
- [Greedy and Lazy Match](#greedy-and-lazy-match)
- [Boundaries](#boundaries)
- [Back-references](#back-references)
- [Look-ahead and Look-behind](#look-ahead-and-look-behind)

## Regex Components
&nbsp;
* Anchors: ^ and $ match the start and end of a line respectively.

* Quantifiers: *, +, ?, {n}, {n,}, and {n,m} specify the number of times a character or group of characters should occur.

* OR operator: | matches either one expression or another.

* Character classes: [] match a single character from a group of characters.

* Flags: g, i, m, u, and y modify the behavior of the regex.

* Grouping and capturing: () group subpatterns together and extract specific parts of the match.

* Bracket expressions: [] match any character within a specified range or set.

* Greedy and lazy match: *, +, and ? can be made lazy by adding ?.

* Boundaries: \b and \B match specific positions that are not characters.

* Back-references: \n refer to a previously matched group in the regex.

* Look-ahead and look-behind: (?=...), (?!...), (?<=...), and (?<!...) match patterns only if they are followed or preceded by another pattern without including the pattern in the match.

&nbsp;

## Anchors
&nbsp;

Anchors are used to match specific positions in the text. In these cases, the caret anchor is used to indicate the start of a line, while the dollar sign anchor is used to indicate the end of a line.

&nbsp;

## Quantifiers
&nbsp;

The quantifier is used when a character or group of characters should appear multiple times. Quantifiers most commonly used

&nbsp;


‘*’ : Matches zero or more occurrences of
the preceding character.

‘+’; Matches one or more occurrences of the preceding character.

‘?’ : Matches zero or one occurrence of the preceding character.

‘{n}’ : Matches exactly n occurrences of the preceding character.

‘{n,}’ : Matches exactly n occurrences of the preceding character.

‘{n,m}’: Matches between n and m occurrences of the preceding character.

The OR operator is represented by the vertical bar | Using OR in regex, you can match either a term or expression. For example, this regex matches one of the terms, "cat" or "dog".

/cat | dog/

&nbsp;

## OR Operator
&nbsp;

The OR operator is represented by the vertical bar | Using OR in regex, you can match either a term or expression. For example, this regex matches one of the terms, "cat" or "dog".

/cat | dog/


&nbsp;

## Character Classes
&nbsp;

An individual character can be matched against a group of characters by using a character class. Square brackets  [ ] ~ are used to specify a character class. A regex matching any lowercase vowel might look like this:

/[aeiou]/

&nbsp;

## Flags
&nbsp;

Flags are used to modify the behavior of a regex. The most common flags include:

"g': Matches all occurrences of the pattern.

"i : Matches regardless of case.

m': Treats the string as multiple lines.

"u: Treats the pattern and input as unicode.

• 'y': Matches starting at the last match position.

After the last slash /, flags are added. For example, the following regex matches all occurrences of the word "the" regardless of case: 

/the/gi

&nbsp;

## Grouping and Capturing
&nbsp;

Subpatterns are grouped together and specific parts of matches are extracted using grouping and capturing. Parentheses " () " are used to group subpatterns. As an example, the following regex captures usernames and domains from email addresses:

/^([a-zA-Z0-9._-]+)@([a-zA-Z0-9.-]+\.[a-zA-Z]{2,})$/

&nbsp;

## Bracket Expressions
&nbsp;

Bracket expressions are used to match any character within a specified range or set. For example, the following regex matches any digit:

/[0-9]/

&nbsp;

## Greedy and Lazy Match
&nbsp;

By default, regex matching is greedy, which means it will match as much as possible.
However, it is possible to specify a lazy match using the ? quantifier. For example, the following regex matches the first occurrence of "foo" followed by "bar":

/foo.*?bar/


&nbsp;

## Boundaries
&nbsp;

Boundaries are used to match specific positions that are not characters, such as the beginning or end

&nbsp;

## Back-references
&nbsp;

Back-references are used to refer to a previously matched group in the regex. The backslash \ followed by a number n matches the same text as the nth group. For example, the following regex matches a palindrome:

/(\w)(\w)?(\w)?(\w)?\4\3\2\1/

* The groups capture individual letters, and the back-reference \4\3\2\1 matches the exact same letters in reverse order.

&nbsp;

## Look-ahead and Look-behind

&nbsp;

Look-ahead and look-behind are used to match a pattern only if it is followed or preceded by another pattern without including the pattern in the match. The syntax for look-ahead is (?=...), and the syntax for negative look-ahead is (?!...). For example, the following regex matches any string that is followed by "world":

/Hello(?= world)/


The syntax for look-behind is (?<=...), and the syntax for negative look-behind is (?<!...). For example, the following regex matches any string that is preceded by "hello":


/(?<=hello )world/

&nbsp;

## Author

By Fabien Mukungu Acina

https://github.com/Fabitheguy003
